So there are two ways to break a graph.
Identifying the smallest node set which
if removed will disconnect the graph.
Here, if we remove F, D and
H or H, F, G,
we have disconnected the graph.
So the separating set is either H,
F and G, or H, F and D.
So the connectivity is three.
Similarly, removing C-F, D-G, D-F and
H-E edges will also disconnect the graph.
Therefore, the edge connectivity is four.
So this is how network
robustness is defined.
Now, let's ask, is this network robust?
Suppose the attacker removed node F.
Why remove F?
Because F is the most connected node.
That is, F has the highest degree.
If we remove F, five paths are disrupted.
For example,
there is no way to go from C to G, or
from I to E,
because these paths went through F.
Let's try this exercise.
Suppose the attacker
has already removed F.
And would like to cause more
damage to the rest of the network.
Which node should be targeted next?
The answer is C,
because C is the next most connected node.
Higher degree nodes make
the network more vulnerable.